---
layout: post
title: "Day of code #0"
date: 2020-05-20 22:55
languages: [Elixir, Ruby, Go, Java, TypeScript, Kubernetes, Python]
---

Today I accepted the challenge of [#100DaysOfCode](https://www.100daysofcode.com/) and for the **Day 00** I want to resume the current status, the motivation, the next steps and the expectations on this challenge.

Currently I'm working as a *Developer Consultant* at [ThoughtWorks](https://thoughtworks.com) on a project using mostly Java, Spring Boot, Buildkite, GitHub and some Kubernetes magic.

For me, Java has a interesting ecosystem and a very large and mature community, however, Java is not my favorite language, maybe I just have a bias about how Java works, the virtual machine and the Oracle moves to make this language one of the most used for on the *traditional* corporative world.

For that reason, I spend most of my free time learning or improving my knowledge around languages like *Ruby*, *Elixir* and *Go*. And right now I can say that my favorite is *Elixir* and I have are some reasons for that:

1. The syntax is very similar to *Ruby*.
1. Paradigm change *(Functional)*.
1. Distributed concurrency out of the box.
1. Pattern matching.

<script id="asciicast-332823" src="https://asciinema.org/a/332823.js" async></script>

The paradigm change is very interesting, you can feel like you gain new powers when you understand the *pure functions* and the *inmutability*, after many years learning *(or trying to learn)* the *OOP Paradigm*, the *design patters* and all the OOP related things, you can feel a relief and liberty using a new paradigm *(when I say new, I mean new for me)*.

Right now I can say that I have the required skills to work on production scale process for applications on Java, Ruby or Elixir including test-driven development, the deployment process, continuous integration and continuous delivery, incluiding some frontend skills.

I take the *#100DaysOfCode* Challenge to get deeply on my knowledge around *Evolutive Architectures*, *Design Patters*, *Domain Driven Development* and to have more maestry on *Elixir*.

About the plan, I will start with the *OTP*, *Dynamic Supervisors* and distributed concurrency with the most *real-world* implementations availables for my mind. Also I have some books to read related with the *Domain-driven development*, so I will be jumping across the books and the Elixir implementations. Also my brother wants to learn Python, so I will start to have some mentoring sessions with him on Saturnday.

