---
layout: post
title: "Day of code #05"
date: 2020-05-25 22:55
languages: [Go]
---

## Github sponsors

Today my application for Github Sponsors was approved, now what? Ummmm...

{% include images.html
            img="public/images/screenshots/sponsors.jpg"
            title="Sponsors Profile"
            caption="Github Sponsors Profile" %}

Well, there is no difference yet, so I will continue contributing to open source projects as I was doing before, but if you want to sponsor someone please try with me hehehe. You can go to [my sponsors profile](https://github.com/sponsors/mijailr/) and choose a tier, starting from $3 or any tier that matches with your desire to contribute.

## Improving github cli

I use a lot Alfred app to be more productive and make easier my job, one of the Workflows that I use most is the [Github Repos](https://github.com/edgarjs/alfred-github-repos) which uses a custom script to fetch the repositories when you want to search. Since Github [recently released](https://cli.github.com/) a cli version, I want to make use of this tool, but the github cli doesn't have a search feature. So I started a [Pull Request](https://github.com/cli/cli/pull/1005) to add this functionality, so in the next days and based on my time availability, I will be pushing to have that functionality.

This cli is writed on Go, so is an oportunity to put on practice my knowledge on Golang.


{% highlight go linenos %}
package command

import (
	"github.com/spf13/cobra"
)

func init() {
	RootCmd.AddCommand(searchCmd)
	searchCmd.AddCommand(repoSearch)

	repoSearch.Flags().StringP("sort", "s", "stars", "Sort by (default: stars)")
	repoSearch.Flags().Int16P("count", "c", 10, "Retrieve quantity (default: 10)")
}

var searchCmd = &cobra.Command{
	Use:   "search",
	Short: "Search for users or repositories by keyword",
	Long: `Search users or repositories.

A keyword can be supplied as an argument as any of the following formats:
- keyword
- "a long keyword string"
`,
}

var repoSearch = &cobra.Command{
	Use:   "repo",
	Args:  cobra.MinimumNArgs(1),
	Short: "Search a repository by keyword",
	RunE:  searchRepo,
}

func searchRepo(cmd *cobra.Command, args []string) error {
	// keyword := args[0]
	return nil
}
{% endhighlight %}
