---
layout: post
title: "Day of code #08"
date: 2020-05-28 22:55
languages: [AWS, YML]
---

Today I was learning about AWS Elastic Beanstalk, here are the notes:

## Elastic Beanstalk

- Is the Heroku of AWS
- CloudFormation templates

### Platforms

- Docker
- Multi-docker
- Go, Ruby, Python, Node, PHP, .NET (and frameworks)

### Web vs Worker

- Web directly to internet
- Worker for background jobs

### Web environments

#### Load-balanced environment

- Uses ASG and set to scale
- Uses ELB

#### Single-instance environment

- Uses a Public IP address
- No ELB to reduce costs

### Deployent policies availables with Elastic Beanstalk

| Deployment Policy            | Load Balanced Env | Single Instance Env |
| :--------------------------- | :---------------- | :------------------ |
| All at once                  | âœ…                | âœ…                  |
| Rolling                      | âœ…                | ðŸš«                  |
| Rolling with aditional batch | âœ…                | ðŸš«                  |
| Inmutable                    | âœ…                | âœ…                  |
{: .table }


\* rolling requires an ELB

#### All at once deployment

1. Deploys new app version to all instances at the same time.
1. Takes all insttances `out of service` while deployment process.
1. Servers become available again.

Fastest but dangerous deployment method.
In case of failure: You need to roll-back and redeploy original version.


#### Rolling deployment

1. Deploys the new app version to a batch of instances at a time.
1. Takes batch's instances `out of services` while the deployment process.
1. Reattaches updated instances.
1. Repeat with next batches

**In case of failure:**
You need to perform an aditional rolling update in order to roll-back the changes.

#### Rolling with aditional batch

1. Launches new instance tha will be used to replace a batch.
1. Deploy update app version to new batch.
1. Attach new batch and terminate the existing batch.

- Rolling with additional batch ensure our capacity is never reduced.
- Important for applications were a reduction on capasity could cause availability issues.

**In case of failure:**
Perform aditional rolling update to roll-back changes.


#### Inmutable

1. Create a new ASG group with EC2 instances.
1. Deploy the updated version o the new EC2 instances.
1. Point the ELB to the new ASG and delete old ASG (which will terminate old EC2 instances).

- Safest way to deploy critical applications.

**In case of failure:**
Terminate new instances since the existing will remain.

### Deployment methods

| Method | Impact of failed deployment | Deploy time | No downtime | No DNS change | Roll-back process | Code deployed to instances |
| :----- | :-------------------------- | :---------- | :---------- | :------------ | :---------------- | :------------------------- |
| All at once                  | Downtime | â± | ðŸš« | âœ… | Manual | Existing |
| Rolling                      | Single batch out of service; any succesfull baches before failure running new version | â±â±+ | âœ… | âœ… | Manual | Existing |
| Rolling with aditional batch | Minimal if first batch fail; otherwise similar to rolling | â±â±â±+| âœ… | âœ… | Manual | New and Existing |
| Inmutable                    | Minimal | â±â±â±â± | âœ… | âœ… | Terminate new | New |
| Blue/green                   | Minimal | â±â±â±â± | âœ… | ðŸš« | Swap URL | New |
{: .table }

### In-place vs Blue/Green

Elastic Beanstalk by default perform **in-place** updates.

### Elastic Beanstalk configuration files

- `.ebextennsions` -> hidden folder at the root of the project
- `.config` -> extension of the files inside `.ebextensions`

#### Configuration files can config

1. Option settings
1. Linux / Windows server config
1. Custom resources

#### Environment manifest

Is a file called `env.yml` which is stored on the root of the project.

{% highlight yml linenos %}
AWSConfigurationTempalteVersion: 1.1.0.0
EnvironmentName: application-prod
SolutionStack: Ruby
EnvironmentLinks:
  WORKERQUEUE: "worker+"
OptionSettings:
  asw:elb:loadbalancer:
    CrossZone: true
{% endhighlight %}

#### Linux Server Configuration

##### Packages

Download and install prepackaged applications and components

{% highlight yml linenos %}
packages:
  yum:
    libmemcached: []
    ruby-devel: []
{% endhighlight %}

##### Groups

Create Linux/UNIX groups and to assign group IDs

{% highlight yml linenos %}
groups:
  groupAdmin: {}
  groupDev:
    gid: "12"
{% endhighlight %}

##### Users

Create Linux/UNIX users

{% highlight yml linenos %}
users:
  mijail:
    groups:
      - groupAdmin
    uid: 87
    homeDir: "/home/mijail/"
{% endhighlight %}

##### Files

Create files on the EC2 instance (inline or from URL)

{% highlight yml linenos %}
files:
  "/home/mijail/application.yml":
    mode: "000755"
    owner: root
    group: root
    content: |
      SECRET: RandomSecret
{% endhighlight %}

##### Commands

Execute commands on the EC2 instance before app is setup

{% highlight yml linenos %}
commands:
  1_create_root:
    command: mkdir /var/www/app
  2_link:
    command: ln -s /var/www/app /app
{% endhighlight %}

##### Services

Define which services sould be started or stoped when the instance is lauched.

{% highlight yml linenos %}
services:
  sysvinit:
    nginx:
      enabled: true
      ensureRunning: true
{% endhighlight %}

##### Container Commands

Execute commands that affect your application source code.
Not refered to docker containers, just application code.

{% highlight yml linenos %}
container_commands:
  0_migrate:
    command: rake db:migrate
  1_assets:
    command: rake assets:precompile
{% endhighlight %}

### Elastic Beanstalk CLI

- `eb init` -> configure your project directory
- `eb create` -> create env
- `eb status` -> see current status of env
- `eb health` -> view health info for the instances and overall env
- `eb events` -> list of events output by EB
- `eb logs` -> pull logs from a instance
- `eb open` -> open env website in a browser
- `eb deploy` -> once the env is runnig deploy an update
- `eb config` -> take a look at the configuration options available on the running env
- `eb terminate` -> delete the environment

### Elastic Beanstalk Custom Images

When you crete an EB environment you can specify an AMI to use insted of the standart EB AMI

### Configuring RDS

- Inside EB
- Outside EB

#### Inside EB Env

- Generally for `development` envs
- When the EB env is terminated the DB is also terminated

#### Outside EB env
- Intended for `production` environments
- Create the db form RDS separate from EB
- When de EB env is termitaded the DB will remain

### Elastic Beanstalk cheat sheet

- Handles deployment from capacity provisioning, load balancing, auto-scaling to application health monitoring.
- When you want to run a web-application but you don't want to have think about the underlying infrastructure.
- It cost nothing to use Elastic Beanstalk (only resources it provisions eg. RDS, ELB, EC2)
- Recommended for test or development apps. Not recommended for production use (super large enterprises)
- You can choose from the following preconfigured platforms: Java, .NET, PHP, Node, Python, Ruby, Go and Docker.
- You can run containers on EB either in Single-container or Multi-container, thes containers are running on ECS instead of EC2.
- You can launch either a **Web Environment** or a **Worker Environment**.
  - **Web Environments** comes in two types **Single-Instance** or **Load Balanced**.
    - **Single-Instance env** launches a single EC2 instance, an EIP is assigned to the EC2.
    - **Load Balanced Env** launch EC2s behind an ELB managed by an ASG.
  - **Worker environments** creates an SQS queue, install the SQS deamon on the EC2 instances, and has ASG scaling policy which will add or remove instances based on the queue size.
- EB has the following **deployment policies**:
  - **All at once** takes all sercers `out of service`, applies changes, put the servers back in service, fast, has downtime.
  - **Rolling** updates servers in batches, reduced capacity based on batch size.
  - **Rolling with additional batch** adds new servers in batches to replace old, never reduces capacity.
  - **Inmutable** creates the same amount of servers, and switches all at once to new servers, removing old servers.
- Rolling deployment policies **require an ELB** so cannot be used with Single-Instance Web environments.
- In-Place deployment is when deployment occurs within the environment, all deployment policies are In-Place.
- Blue/Green is when deployment swaps environments (outside an environment), When you have external resources such as RDS which cannot be destroyet its suited for Blue/Green.
- `.ebextensions` is a folder which contains all configuration files.
- With EB you can provide a **Custom Image** which can imporve provisioning times.
- If you let EB create the RDS instance, that means when you delete your environment it will delete the database. This setup is intended for development and test environments.
- **Dockerrun.aws.json** is similar to a ECS task definition files and defines multicontainer configuration.
