---
layout: post
title: "Day of code #37"
date: 2020-06-24 22:55
languages: [Bash]
---

Mentoring SysAdmin Session 2
----------------------------

Usefull commands
----------------

### Package managers

Most used inside `Dockerfile` when you need to install specific packages on the container image.

{% highlight dockerfile linenos %}
FROM debian:latest

RUN apt-get -y install \
            package-name
{% endhighlight %}

Depending on the docker base image you need to use different package managers and also in some cases the `package-name` is different, so you need to check the distribution documentation to know the exact name of the package.

The most used package managers are:

-	`apt` or `apt-get` - Debian derivated distributions (like ubuntu)
-	`pkg` - Alpine Linux

Each package manager has his own implementation and flags, you can use the manpages command `man` as you can do with other system tools to know exactly which actions and flags you need to use.

Bash scripting
--------------

We use bash to run some tasks on pipelines, deployments and administration tasks, even thougt if the deployment is using cloud native applications in many cases we need to write bash scripts to do some things.

Bash scripting is the sequence of commands you want to execute and this have also the power to execute some transformations to the state of the code.

### Use case

In a client pipeline running on buildkite we needed to run some scripts to build the docker images and calculate the version number using the git tag (if is present), the branch name or the first 8 characters of the commit hash. To do so we made an script like this:

{% highlight bash linenos %}
#!/bin/bash

IMAGE = "demo-application"
TAG = ${BUILDKITE_COMMIT:0:8} # this notation allows you to slice the hash string to the first 8 characters

if [[ -z $BUILDKITE_TAG ]]; then
  TAG=${BUILDKITE_TAG}
fi

if [[ $BUILDKITE_BRANCH == 'master' ]]; then
  IMAGES="-t ${IMAGE}:${TAG} -t ${IMAGE}:${BUILDKITE_BRANCH}"
fi

docker build ${IMAGES} .
docker push ${IMAGE}
{% endhighlight %}

As you can see is like a programming language, it has variables, operators, loops, etc. But can be runned on the host system without installing or compiling anything.

### Exercise time

#### Excercise #1

On your home folder there is a bash script called `sample.sh` for printing `"Hello World"` and the current date, try to execute it, is there something wrong? can you fix it? (Please remember the previous session)

#### Excercise #2

On the home user path of your application, write a simple script to rename all the files in the `~/excersise` folder to be on this format:

`file-{current name}-test.txt`

Going forward
-------------

Please do the first 4 excercises on this web:

-	https://exercism.io/tracks/bash
